## Consumables

### Solder

I have a 450g (1lb) spool of Kester 0.4mm (0.015") SN63PB37 leaded
solder from Amazon US. Cost about $35. This is name-brand solder
recommended by the experts. I expect this spool to last many years.

I have since seen the [SDG Electronics solder
comparison](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zZ9wxs6xuYU) video
comparing lots of different brands of solder and it seems like there
are excellent cheap ones but you have to choose carefully.

I also have a couple of spools of ChipQuik lead-free solder in
different thicknesses but I have switched to leaded as my default
choice based on advice from YouTubers.

### Flux

My default flux is from a 75g tub of Amtech NC-559-V2-TF tacky flux
from Amazon.com. This is what Louis Rossmann calls "the good shit" and
has a cult following who especially love it for rework. It has a gooey
consistency and seems to survive some tens of seconds under high heat
from a hot air rework station. I bought a bag of miscellaneous
syringes and use one with a large nozzle as my dispenser (or just goop
it straight from the tub on something like a match stick.)

I have since seen the [SDG Electronics flux
comparison](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iKDAmY9Rdag) and it seems
like there are some excellent cheaper ones available too. I'll
probably try a couple of these when the Amtech starts running low.

I also have a ChipQuik flux pen that I use occasionally. This is a
liquid flux. Seems ideal if you want to use only a little flux but
lately I prefer to slop on the tacky stuff.

### Isopropyl alcohol

I use 99.5% isopropyl alcohol (aka isopropanol, aka 2-propanol) to
clean away flux residue after soldering. I apply it using a tooth
brush. I bought a 1L bottle at a local shop and use that to top up a
more convenient little bottle.

### Kimwipes

I have just started using Kimwipes to soak up the dirty alcohol when
cleaning PCBs. These are basically tissues that don't leave fibers
behind. I emulate John Gammell's technique of putting the wipe over
the alcohol and then rubbing it with a brush.

I had used Q-tips but these often left cotton fibers between the legs
of components when I cleaned them during rework.

### ChipQuik desoldering alloy

I have some ChipQuik desoldering alloy for removing non-BGA chips with
exposed legs. It works great but I don't have much use for it since I
got the hot air rework gun.

### Solder balls

I have some solder balls in various sizes (for reballing BGA chips) from Aliexpress:

https://www.aliexpress.com/item/845134998.html?spm=a2g0o.productlist.0.0.2e8b22f45VDY0E&algo_pvid=4b62496e-b5a9-4d90-a1f2-c05562991df6&algo_expid=4b62496e-b5a9-4d90-a1f2-c05562991df6-1&btsid=804cc17e-29f4-45d4-9d24-7f288b5af307&ws_ab_test=searchweb0_0,searchweb201602_2,searchweb201603_53

I haven't tried them yet but I am really looking forward to it!

### Solder paste

I have some Amtech solder paste from Amazon.com. I have this stored in
my fridge at the moment and I haven't used it yet. I'm concerned that
it spend some time (days?) in my mailbox at close to room temperature
and might be spoiled.

