## Gear I don't own (but have been tempted by)

[Imdes Vapor Phase
Oven](https://eleshop.eu/vapour-phase-jumbo-condens-it.html) seems
like the entry-level commercial reflow oven for working with large
BGAs. I was tempted by the Mini model but its price increased a lot
recently (I guess because the product has matured.) Maybe the Jumbo
would be a better option now. I don't feel an immediate need for one
of these but I'm keeping it in mind for the future.

[Imdes desoldering
jig](https://eleshop.eu/imdes-vapor-phase-imd-dss1.html). This would
be handy for desoldering big FPGAs. However, the price is astronomical
so I'm thinking about how to DIY my own.

[Metcal
MX-5200](http://www.okinternational.com/metcal/english/globalnavigation/products/hand-soldering-systems/systems/dual-port-simultaneous/mx-5200-soldering-rework-and-desoldering)
or [Hakko
FX-100](http://www.okinternational.com/metcal/english/globalnavigation/products/hand-soldering-systems/systems/dual-port-simultaneous/mx-5200-soldering-rework-and-desoldering)
induction-heated soldering station. I really don't need either of
these but I am more than a little curious about how they perform. I
nearly took this route instead of JBC but I preferred JBC's "Batman"
style with an extensive range of specialized tools e.g. nano tweezers.

4K camera with large sensor for microscope port. I would like 4K so
that I can crop and zoom down to 1080p. I would also like a large
sensor because it is challenging getting enough light for good
exposure through my microscope's camera port. Maybe someone can
suggest a good model?

[JBC SRWS-S rework
system](https://www.jbctools.com/srws-s-smd-rework-system-product-1454.html)
is the shiniest thing that I know. It's an integrated rework system
built around an IR preheater and a hot air gun and mechanical
supports. The special thing is that a central controller makes the
heaters work in concert e.g. control the heat sources to bring a
specific component to a specific temperature following a specific
thermal ramp up profile, or to prevent another component from
exceeding a certain temperature, etc. HOWEVER, it's really expensive
(~$3500), and it might even be a bit /too/ automated for my taste.

(The JBC automated reflow system might be the tool you would want to
(say) replace the CPUs on a hundred laptops in a perfectly controlled
and consistent way. Since I am making prototypes it seems to be more
fun and crafty to manually apply heat and track temperatures with
thermocouples. Still, if money and bench space were no object...)

[X-Ray Machine](https://www.ebay.com/i/322593819555) for inspecting
BGAs. I don't think that I truly want one of these :-). The safety
aspect is a major concern even before picking the cheapest model from
eBay. However, it is intriguing that X-Ray machines are selling for
hundreds of dollars... I'll probably try asking the local dental
surgery nicely if they can take occasional pictures for me.

