# People

Great people to learn from on the internet, mostly YouTube.

## Louis Rossmann (USA)

[Louis Rossmann on
YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCl2mFZoRqjw_ELax4Yisf6w)
runs a Macbook repair shop. He shows himself doing repairs, reviewing
equipment, and ranting about whatever crosses his mind. Seeing him
[replace BGA chips with a hot air
gun](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2eXMFIkdA0o) is what got me
interested in doing electronics by hand -- I had no idea this was
possible. His videos are often a bit long and rambling and that's just
his style.

I have to take Louis' equipment reviews with a grain of salt. His
equipment is revenue-generating for his repair business so he's not a
major bargain hunter, he is fairly loyal to a few major brands, and he
is reselling the equipment that he recommends so he is not impartial.

## Dave Jones (AUS) aka EEVblog

[Dave Jones as EEVblog on
YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/EEVblog) has posted more than a
thousand videos. He is basically the Steve Irwin of electronics. He
covers topics like learning to solder, reviewing both high-end and
low-end gear, electrical engineering theory, electronics myth-busting,
equipment tear-downs, etc. Dave is a top bloke.

I am cautious about Dave's equipment recommendations too. He is a
professional, he buys some really expensive gear, he tends towards
established brands based on his long experience with them. He does
also review up-and-coming brands and even total junk though too.

## Steve Gardener (UK) aka SDG Electronics

[Steve Gardener as SDG Electronics on
YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCMiC9bSMux7i2Ds6sIqDaFg)
probably does the best equipment reviews for newbies. He is a
professional electrical engineer but he is buying and reviewing
equipment for his own personal lab and hobby projects. He knows
quality when he sees it, he probably uses much more expensive stuff at
work, but he is focused on finding low-cost good-quality bargains on
Banggood and Aliexpress.

## John Gammell (USA)

[John Gammell on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/jkgamm041) is a
grand master soldering instructor. He has a bunch of minute-or-two
YouTube videos each demonstrating one soldering technique in a
masterful way.

## Jessa Jones (USA)

[Jessa Jones as iPad Rehab on
YouToube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCPjp41qeXe1o_lp1US9TpWA)
does iPhone and iPad troubleshooting and repair. She has a definite
style of her own with emphasis on reworking damaged stuff. I haven't
watched many of her videos yet.

## EEVBlog community forum

[The EEVblog community forum](https://www.eevblog.com/forum/index.php)
is a treasure trove of information. There are literally millions of
posts about all kinds of electronics topics. Amazingly skilled and
experienced people. Great place to search for second opinions and
different takes on how to solve a problem.

