# About

These are Luke Gorrie's notes about setting up an entry-level
electronics lab and learning how to make hardware.

# People

Great people to learn from on the internet, mostly YouTube.

## Louis Rossmann (USA)

[Louis Rossmann on
YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCl2mFZoRqjw_ELax4Yisf6w)
runs a Macbook repair shop. He shows himself doing repairs, reviewing
equipment, and ranting about whatever crosses his mind. Seeing him
[replace BGA chips with a hot air
gun](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2eXMFIkdA0o) is what got me
interested in doing electronics by hand -- I had no idea this was
possible. His videos are often a bit long and rambling and that's just
his style.

I have to take Louis' equipment reviews with a grain of salt. His
equipment is revenue-generating for his repair business so he's not a
major bargain hunter, he is fairly loyal to a few major brands, and he
is reselling the equipment that he recommends so he is not impartial.

## Dave Jones (AUS) aka EEVblog

[Dave Jones as EEVblog on
YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/EEVblog) has posted more than a
thousand videos. He is basically the Steve Irwin of electronics. He
covers topics like learning to solder, reviewing both high-end and
low-end gear, electrical engineering theory, electronics myth-busting,
equipment tear-downs, etc. Dave is a top bloke.

I am cautious about Dave's equipment recommendations too. He is a
professional, he buys some really expensive gear, he tends towards
established brands based on his long experience with them. He does
also review up-and-coming brands and even total junk though too.

## Steve Gardener (UK) aka SDG Electronics

[Steve Gardener as SDG Electronics on
YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCMiC9bSMux7i2Ds6sIqDaFg)
probably does the best equipment reviews for newbies. He is a
professional electrical engineer but he is buying and reviewing
equipment for his own personal lab and hobby projects. He knows
quality when he sees it, he probably uses much more expensive stuff at
work, but he is focused on finding low-cost good-quality bargains on
Banggood and Aliexpress.

## John Gammell (USA)

[John Gammell on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/jkgamm041) is a
grand master soldering instructor. He has a bunch of minute-or-two
YouTube videos each demonstrating one soldering technique in a
masterful way.

## Jessa Jones (USA)

[Jessa Jones as iPad Rehab on
YouToube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCPjp41qeXe1o_lp1US9TpWA)
does iPhone and iPad troubleshooting and repair. She has a definite
style of her own with emphasis on reworking damaged stuff. I haven't
watched many of her videos yet.

## EEVBlog community forum

[The EEVblog community forum](https://www.eevblog.com/forum/index.php)
is a treasure trove of information. There are literally millions of
posts about all kinds of electronics topics. Amazingly skilled and
experienced people. Great place to search for second opinions and
different takes on how to solve a problem.

# Techniques

Various soldering and reworking techniques.

## Soldering

### John Gammell

John Gammell demonstrates several expert soldering techniques:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5uiroWBkdFY

### Dave Jones eevblog tutorial

Dave Jones has some excellent videos about getting started with
soldering:

- [EEVblog #180 - Soldering Tutorial Part 1 - Tools](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J5Sb21qbpEQ)
- [EEVblog #183 - Soldering Tutorial Part 2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J5Sb21qbpEQ)

I started off using lead-free solder and the cheapest tools I could
find but I've come to see the wisdom of Dave's advice. Recommended.

## Drag soldering
### John Gammell

John Gammell briefly demonstrating expert drag soldering:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=erb6-i54tbo

### JColvin91

JColvin91 demonstrating drag soldering while still learning the technique:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MR_UZtcqoFo&t=924s

Great to see people making some mistakes and asking yourself what went
wrong, what would John Gammell do differently.

## Hot air
### Louis replace BGA chip

Louis Rossmann replacing a BGA chip using a hot air rework station:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2eXMFIkdA0o

This video was mind-blowing for me. I had thought that BGA work could
only be done in batch-mode with reflow ovens and such but he just does
it casually with hot air as if he were doing a haircut.

## PCB cleaning

### John Gammell

John Gammell cleaning PCBs by applying 99% isopropyl alcohol with a
brush to dissolve flux residue, then soaking it up with a lint-free
wipe so that the residue is gone before the alcohol evaporates.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hINp_g68mh4

## General rework
### Jessa Jones

Jessa Jones demonstrating basic reworking techniques like soldering
with hot tweezers, leveling pads with hot air, dealing with a lifted
pad, and using tweezers in each hand to position small components.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0OiT9e_JXk&feature=youtu.be

### ChipQuik desoldering alloy

Dave Jones demonstates ChipQuik desoldering alloy, for desoldering
chips with an iron instead of a hot air gun:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UmD7F0--7Lc

(I'm surprised that Dave didn't know about ChipQuik before that video.
It's popular and has been around for a long time.)

## BGA reballing
### By hand

Using solder balls without a stencil:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DVTxHx0z-wo

Just applying fresh solder directly:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QAv1UKDi_eg

### Solder paste

Using a stencil that's probably expensive because it's strong enough
to stay in place and the tolerate heat while balls reflow:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G4IhQPlx7Ws

### Solder balls

Reballing using solder balls and no stencil (holy shit):

Reballing using solder balls and a stencil:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tFs_K8i0Xo8

## Miscellaneous

### Macbook RAM upgrade

Chinese repair shop demonstrating [how to upgrade a
Macbook](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ewOszZknX64) from 8GB to 16GB
RAM using a hot air gun.


# Gear

I am setting up my first serious electronics lab at the moment. I'm
spending at least a couple of thousand dollars on this in total. Here
is the approach I am taking when it comes to acquiring new equipment.

First, is this really the most important piece of equipment for me
right now? People on YouTube and eevblog forums are using all kinds of
fancy tools but there are other people doing fine without them too.
Some things you naturally need early, like a soldering iron and a pair
of tweezers, and others things not so much like reflow ovens and x-ray
machines.

Second, is there a new up-and-coming cheap option that people on the
internet have thoroughly evaluated and found to be good? For examples
Eakins microscopes and accessories from Aliexpress.

Third, is there some entry-level professional option with a solid
track record that should be suitable for many years of work without
needing to be replaced? For example Hakko 888D soldering iron and
Quick 861DW hot air station.

Fourth, for smaller relatively inexpensive items like solder and flux
and tweezers, consider indulging a bit and buying the expensive ones
that people rave about. You only live once and you might aswell
splurge on things that cost $50 instead of the big stuff.

## Shops

Geography matters when it comes to shopping. Some things are heavy and
expensive to ship like microscopes; some have special requirements
like solder paste that has to stay refridgerated; some are just hard
to find available from shops who know how to ship things to Europe.

### Alfa

(Or what is that shop called again?)

### Aliexpress

I love Aliexpress. I used to shop there much more when I lived in
Switzerland, due to the low shipping and import costs, but I'm more
hesitate now that I live in Sweden. Search for what you want, sort by
number of orders, buy something that's been rated 4.7+ by 100+ people.

Or better yet get a direct link from another satisfied customer.

(I believe that Banggood is basically the same thing but I haven't
tried them.)

### Amazon.com

Amazon USA stock some items that are hard to find in Europe, like tubs
of Amtech tacky flux. Just check the seller and reviews to be sure
you're getting authentic merch.

I ordered solder paste from the Amazon US and that was probably a
mistake because I don't think it was kept refridgerated end-to-end so
I'm not sure if it will work when I finally use it.

### Amazon.de

Amazon Germany are my first choice but they don't have much speciality items.

### Batterfly

Batterfly (http://batterfly.com/) in Italy stock some specialist items
that others don't e.g. genuine Hakko soldering tips.

### Digikey and Mouser

Digikey and Mouser both stock lots of microchips and a certain amount
of equipment. They also have low minimum purchase for free shipping
(from USA?) Mouser seem more successful at delivering to Sweden
without surprising import bills.

### Farnell

Farnell have some items that others don't e.g. wire pencil.

## Big stuff

### Soldering iron

Hakko 888D soldering station. Cost around $100 from Mouser/Digikey.
Heats up really quickly, comfortable to use, solid construction,
should last for years. Often seen recommended as a first "proper"
soldering iron.

### Hot air gun

Quick 861DW hot air rework station. Cost around $300 from Batterfly.
Seems expensive but quality seems to be excellent. Chose mostly based
on [review by Louis
Rossmann](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ChujyTV-HME).


### Microscope

Eakins trinocular from Aliexpress with articulating arm. (AmScope
clone.) $350 + $150 shipping. Expensive but absolutely worth every
penny!

Chose this based on the [review by Steve
Gardener](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B0wRdJRzPUI) and many other
satisfied customers on YouTube and eevblog forum.

Genuine AmScope were more expensive, really hard to buy from Sweden,
often bundled with impractical mounts, and people online seemed to
like the Eakins better anyway.

### Preheater

I have a Yihua 853A preheater. I haven't actually used it yet but the
use case is assembling boards without a reflow oven, using solder
paste + preheater + hot air rework gun.

I ordered this before I needed it because it's cheap (~$45), it takes
a few weeks to be delivered from China, and the [teardown by Steve
Gardener](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mHrLQ48zfOQ) convinced me
that it's decent quality and unlikely to burn my house down.

## Small stuff
### Hakko tips

I started off with a random assortment of no-name Hakko-compatible
soldering iron tips from Amazon for around $10. These are great for
getting started and seeing which tip shapes and sizes are useful.
There seems to be a lot of individual preference here.

I since found genuine Hakko tips on Batterfly and ordered a variety of
shape D (chisel) for general use and shape BC (bevel with only flat
part tinned) for drag soldering. This was based on reading EEVblog
forum threads and seeing John Gammell also demonstrate the BC.

(I would love to try a BCM tip with resevoir but Hakko don't make that
for the 888D and I haven't found anywhere selling a compatible one.)

See [Hakko - Select Tip
Shape](https://www.hakko.com/english/tip_selection/type.html) guide.

### Tweezers

I have three pairs of good tweezers made by Ideal-Tek in Switzerland.
I love them. Chose them based on a [comment with pictures on
eevblog](https://www.eevblog.com/forum/reviews/best-tweezers-etc/msg1194495/#msg1194495).

Specifically I have the SM-108A as default choice, the fine TL 5-TA
for precise work like picking out cotton fibers from between chip
legs, and my favourite the SM-100 SA reverse-action for holding things
like solder wick steady.

These tweezers cost about $20 per pair, which seems insane for what
they are, but I am really happy with this approach of splurging on the
smaller items that bring a lot of pleasure and don't cost much in
absolute terms.

(I have some cheap $0.50 tweezers too but after accidentally launching
chips across the room a couple of times I only use those for poking
things around.)

### ESD mat

I have a [120x60cm ESD
mat](https://www.digikey.com/product-detail/en/scs/8900/SCP774-ND/9606803)
with a grounding wristband. I absolutely love it. This covers the
surface of my desk and can easily handle the heat when I solder or
rework with hot air directly on top of it.

I value the peace of mind to know that I'm not damaging chips with
static electricity when I work with them. I would hate to always live
with doubts about this while I am troubleshooting hard problems.

## Consumables

### Solder

I have a 1lb spool of Kester 0.4mm (0.015") SN63PB37 leaded solder
from Amazon US. This is name-brand solder recommended by the experts.
I expect this spool to last many years.

I have since seen the [SDG
Electronics](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zZ9wxs6xuYU) comparison
of zillions of different kinds of solder and I know that similarly
excellent solder is avaliable much cheaper too.

I also have a couple of spools of ChipQuik lead-free solder in
different thicknesses but I have switched to leaded as my default
choice based on advice from YouTubers.

### Flux

My default flux is from a 75g tub of Amtech NC-559-V2-TF tacky flux
from Amazon.com. This is what Louis Rossmann calls "the good shit" and
has a cult following who especially love it for rework. It has a gooey
consistency and seems to survive some tens of seconds under high heat
from a hot air rework station.

I have also been using ChipQuik flux, liquid from a flux pen and gel
from a tube, but I have switched to Amtech as my default. I bought a
bag of miscellaneous syringes and use one with a large tip as my
dispenser.

### Isopropyl alcohol

I use 99.5% isopropyl alcohol (aka isopropynlol, aka 2-propynol) to
clean away flux residue after soldering. I apply it using a tooth
brush.

### Kimwipes

I am currently waiting on my first delivery of Kimwipes from
Amazon.de. These are paper wipes that don't leave threads behind.
Meanwhile I'm using Q-tips which do require care to avoid leaving a
mess of cotton fibers.

### ChipQuik desoldering alloy

I have some ChipQuik desoldering alloy. It's good at what it does but I usually use hot air these days. 

### Solder balls

I have some solder balls in various sizes (for reballing BGA chips) from Aliexpress:

https://www.aliexpress.com/item/845134998.html?spm=a2g0o.productlist.0.0.2e8b22f45VDY0E&algo_pvid=4b62496e-b5a9-4d90-a1f2-c05562991df6&algo_expid=4b62496e-b5a9-4d90-a1f2-c05562991df6-1&btsid=804cc17e-29f4-45d4-9d24-7f288b5af307&ws_ab_test=searchweb0_0,searchweb201602_2,searchweb201603_53

I haven't tried them yet but I am really looking forward to it!

### Solder paste

I have some Amtech solder paste from Amazon.com. I have this stored in
my fridge at the moment and I haven't used it yet. I'm concerned that
it spend some time (days?) in my mailbox at close to room temperature
and might be spoiled.

## Gear I don't own
### I was tempted but chose something else
#### All-in-one soldering iron + rework station + preheater
### I don't need it yet
#### Hot tweezers
#### Reflow oven
## Super expensive fantasy stuff that I'll probably never buy
### Mantis microscope
### Metcal soldering station
### X-ray machine


