## Small stuff

### Tips

My favourite tips lately are:

- [Spoon](https://www.jbctools.com/cartridges/C245965%20(datasheet)_Completa.gif)
  (aka mini-wave) or
  [hoof](https://www.jbctools.com/cartridges/C245102%20(datasheet)_Completa.gif)
  (aka bevel) for drag-soldering. These are both especially good for
  drag soldering because you get a satisfying blob of solder pull
  across the pins. They are also surprisingly good for tight fiddly
  work because they only conduct heat on the "cut" part of the tip,
  meaning you won't accidentally melt stuff with the other side of the
  tip (e.g. bumping a passive and picking it up onto the iron as often
  happens to me with a chisel tip.) Note: Hakko makes hoof tips in [CF
  and
  BCF](https://www.hakko.com/english/maintenance/topic_difference.html)
  style and the BCF is the one that only transfers heat on the cut
  surface (CF also transfers heat on the back.)
- Pencil (aka conical) and especially bent pencil. I have grown to like
  these especially for soldering small passives like 0402/0201/01005
  parts. The bent pencil helps to reach pads at funny angles without
  having to rotate the board. I think that you need a good soldering
  station for pencil tips to work well though or else they won't
  transfer enough heat (YMMV.)

I used to use chisel tips mostly. I think that's a good choice if you
have one iron and can't change tips easily. If you could only have one
tip them a fine chisel (e.g. 0.8mm) might be a good choice. If you can
use several tips then I'd prefer more specialized ones though.

People say that you should match the size of your tip to the part you
are soldering for optimal heat-flow. I'm pretty lax about this.
Instead I focus on getting a suitably sized blob of solder onto the
tip of my iron and using that to transfer heat into the joint. I get
away with applying solder from the tip of the iron onto the joint
because I'm always soldering with extra flux to make it flow.

### Tweezers

I have lots of tweezers. I have a few expensive pairs from Ideal-Tek
in Switzerland (OEM for Lindstr√∂m) but mostly I have cheap ones from
China that I've thrown into my shopping basket at the last minute at
various online shops. I think that finding a shape you like is more
important than expensive build quality.

The main styles that I use are:

- Reverse-action for clamping onto things that I want to hold e.g.
  desoldering braid and occasionally chips. I use [Ideal-Tek TL 7X-SA](https://www.heamar.co.uk/precision-tweezers/75587-ideal-tek-7x-sa-1-115mm-reverse-action-tweezers.html). I'd worry about picking up small passives with these because the grip is fairly strong.
- Fine-tipped for picking up small parts. I don't notice a big
  difference between straight or curved tips myself but other people
  seem to have strong preferences on that. My favourite are [Best
  BST-19](https://www.aliexpress.com/item/32985594864.html). [Rhino
  ST11](https://dirtypcbs.com/store/designer/details/ian/13/rhino-tweezers)
  seem great too, not quite as fine. Good to have more than one pair
  of fine tweezers so you don't have to stop and clean them every time
  the tip gets sticky from flux.
- Strong tweezers for opening cut tape containing parts. This is
  strenuous and will bend really fine-tipped tweezers. I use "hammer
  tipped" [Ideal-Tek SM-108
  SA](https://www.ideal-tek.com/scheda.php?m=search&f=8&c=SMD%20tweezers&l=3&idp=856)
  but I struggle to open tape so they may not be optimal.

I've tortured some of my expensive tweezers a bit e.g. bending fine
tips with too much force and soldering directly on the tips to see
what happens. I've always been able to bend them back into shape under
the microscope and scrape off any debris. They seem pretty robust.

I was influenced by the [Best tweezers
etc](https://www.eevblog.com/forum/reviews/best-tweezers-etc/) thread
on EEVblog forum to buy Ideal-Tek. That's a good thread with high-res
photos. However, in practice I have cheap Chinese tweezers in my hand
more often than not.

