## Why

My background is making network infrastructure for ISPs/telcos/etc
professionally. I've been doing this for about 20 years now.
Historically I've always done this using off-the-shelf hardware, often
COTS servers and NICs, but in recent years I've been increasingly
dissatisfied with commercial offerings from companies like
Intel/Mellanox/Broadcom and their shenangians like vertical
integration. I want to break free and build the hardware that I really
want to work with.

My focus is high-performance "service provider" applications. These
days that means up to around one terabit per second of traffic over
10G/25G/40G/50G/100G ethernet links. I am interested in both building
complete hardware products, like a terabit firewall, and also building
components, like a 10G/100G PCIe NIC for use in a server-based
software application.

Since I'll be working on high-performance applications I need to "dive
into the deep end" of electronics very quickly and learn how to swim.
I have to understand what tools I really need to operate at a
professional level, buy them, and learn how to use them effectively.

I have decided that I want to focus on assembling prototypes by hand,
soldering one component at a time, using leaded solder. This is the
traditional space/military style as practiced by e.g. NASA. For this
reason I'm focusing on tools and techniques for reworking boards
interactively rather than the "maker style" stencil-and-oven
batch-oriented style. My work will have more in common with mobile
phone repair shops than with consumer electronics production lines, at
least initially while I am building prototypes. (Hey, I'm a Lisp
hacker, I like the interactive "REPL" feel of working with my hands.)

My hardware adventure will take some years and cost some tens of
thousands of dollars. So be it. I find the whole process absolutely
wild fun and there will be no regrets here :-). I am investing my own
time and money in this project and I feel comfortable with the
risk/reward profile. I have been around the block a few times as an
employee/founder/consultant and I'm pretty good at keeping my projects
fun and creative.

[Separately: I also need to learn how to design PCBs. I'll initially
write my own CAD tools for this purpose with export to
Gerber/KiCad/etc. I'll need to quickly learn to make advanced boards
with e.g. 16 layers and features like via-in-pad. Prototype boards
will cost about $1000 per iteration. That will be the cost of entry to
working with high speed designs using large FPGAs. This will be a
whole other topic!]

